STRAR(1)		    Schily's USER COMMANDS		      STRAR(1)

NAME
       strar - StreamArchive handler

SYNOPSIS
       strar  command [options] file1 ... filen

DESCRIPTION
       Strar is a simple archiver with tar like command like syntax that
       handles StreamArchives.

       Strar archives and extracts multiple files to and from a single file
       called a StreamArchive.	A StreamArchive is usually used in network
       communication, but it can be any file.

       Strar's actions are controlled by the mandatory command flags from the
       list below.  The way strar acts may be modified by additional options.

       Note that unpacking StramArchives may be a security risk because strar
       may overwrite existing files.  See SECURITY NOTES for more information.

COMMAND
       strar is compatible to the command line syntax of a typical POSIX
       command and for this reason expects commands and options to start with
       a single dash (-). In this case, commands and options may be specified
       separately, all boolean or increment type options may be specified
       either separately or combined.

       -c     Create a new StreamArchive and write named files into it.
	      Writing starts at the beginning of the Streamarchive.  See -v
	      option for information on how to increase verbosity while the
	      archive is written.

       -t     Table of contents.  List the contents of the StreamArchive.  If
	      the -v flag is used, the listing is similar to the format of ls
	      -l output.

       -x     Extract files from the StreamArchive.  If no filename argument
	      or pattern is specified, the entire content of the StreamArchive
	      is restored.

       Exactly one of the commands above must be specified.


OPTIONS
       -help  Print a summary of the options for strar(1).

       -basemeta
	      Only add basic meta data: path, mode, size, filetype.

       -nometa
	      Only add minimal meta data: path, size.  In this mode, only
	      plain files may occur in the archive.

       -v     Increment verbose level by one.  This normally results in more
	      output during operation.	See also in the description for the -t
	      flag.  Normally, strar does its work silently.  If the verbose
	      level is 2 or more and strar is in create or update mode, strar
	      will produce a listing to the format of the ls -l output.

       -version
	      Print version information and exit.


SIGNALS
EXIT STATUS
EXAMPLES
ENVIRONMENT
FILES
SEE ALSO
       star(1), spax(1), suntar(1), scpio(1), tar(1), cpio(1), pax(1), rcp(1),
       mt(1), rmt(1), match(1), dd(1), sdd(1), rsh(1), ssh(1), star(4),
       streamarchive(4), rcmd(3).

DIAGNOSTICS
NOTES
SECURITY NOTES
       If you unpack a StramArchive in a non empty directory, any file in that
       directory may be overwritten.  If the archive contains symbolic links
       or hard links, strar may even overwrite files outside the current
       directory.

LIMITATIONS
       If strar is running on a large file aware platform, strar is able to
       handle files of arbitrary size.

BUGS
HISTORY
       Strar was created in 2017.

AUTHOR
       Joerg Schilling
       D-13353 Berlin
       Germany

       Mail bugs and suggestions to:

       joerg@schily.net


SOURCE DOWNLOAD
       The source code for strar is in the schilytools project and may be
       retrieved from the schilytools project at Sourceforge at:

	   http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/

       The download directory is:

	   http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/files/

       Check for the schily-*.tar.bz2 archives.

Joerg Schilling			  2020/09/04			      STRAR(1)
