CHANGE(1)		    Schily's USER COMMANDS		     CHANGE(1)

NAME
       change - non interactive editor to change patterns in files

SYNOPSIS
       change [ options ] from to [ file1 ... filen ]

DESCRIPTION
       Change substitutes the from string or pattern by the to string or
       pattern.

       Change uses the same pattern matcher as match.  If a pattern contains
       special characters from the pattern matcher, these characters must be
       preceded by a backslash '\'.  It is a good idea to put strings in
       single quotes if they contain special characters from the pattern
       matcher.	 This prevents the shell from treating such a string and
       eating up the quote characters before they are seen by change.

       If the character '&' appears in the to_string, it replaces what has
       matched in the from_string.  Multiple occurrences of '&' are possible.

       Change by default creates backup files similar to ved.  The old file is
       renamed to xxx.bak and a new file with the old name and old permissions
       is created.  If the -nobak option is present, the old file is removed
       and a new file is created.

       The file is treated line by line. If a pattern occurs more than once on
       a single line, all occurrences of that pattern are changed unless the
       -# option is present.

       If no file names are present, change operates as filter from stdin to
       stdout.

OPTIONS
       -v     Be verbose: Displays lines before they are changed.

       -c     Displays lines after they are changed.

       -i     Interactive prompting for each change

       -#     Maximum number of changes per line

       -nobak Do not create a xxx.bak file with the old content.

       -help  Prints a short summary of the change options and exists.

       -version
	      Prints the change version number string and exists.

SEE ALSO
       match(1)

NOTES
       If no match for the from_pattern occurs in a file, it is not changed
       and the time stamp of that file is not affected. If change is used on
       several source files, this help the make program to know that only the
       changed files need to be recompiled.

       If a file with more than name is changed, a new file is created.	 The
       new file is no more linked to the other files and the content of the
       other files is not changed.

       See match(1) for a detailed description of allowed patterns.

BUGS

Joerg Schilling			   01/04/22			     CHANGE(1)
