P(1L)			    Schily's USER COMMANDS			 P(1L)

NAME
       p - browse or page through files and filter unprintable characters

SYNOPSIS
       p [ options ] [ file1 ... filen ]

DESCRIPTION
       p reads the files from the argument list and displays them on standard
       out. If the argument list is empty and standard in is not connected to
       a terminal, p reads from standard in.  After displaying a screen full
       of text, p stops and displays a MORE ?  prompt.	If p is reading input
       from a file and not from a pipe, it displays the percentage of
       characters already typed together with the MORE prompt.

       p interprets non printable characters, such as control characters.
       Control characters are transformed into the printable character space
       and preceded by a "^" character. If the eight bit in a character is on
       and the character appears to unprintable, a tilde "~" character is
       preceded in addition. Tabs are expanded into spaces as usual on UNIX
       and lines that exceed the line length of the terminal are wrapped
       around and continued on the next line of the screen.


OPTIONS
       All options can be abbreviated by their first letter.

       length=#
	      Set the number of lines per page.	 If no termcap entry could be
	      found length defaults to 24.

       width=#
	      Set the number of characters per line.  If no termcap entry
	      could be found width defaults to 79.

       -blank Suppress multiple blank lines on the output.

       -clear Clear the screen before displaying each new page.

       -debug Print additional debugging information.

       -dos   Hide carriage-return characters that are directly followed by a
	      new-line.

       -end   Mark the end of each line with the character '$'.

       -help  Print a short summary of the available options and commands.

       -nodos Do not hide carriage-return characters that are directly
	      followed by a new-line.  This option is needed in order to make
	      p binary transparent, so reading files that do not follow DOS
	      newline conventions will not be automatically converted.

       -raw   Do not expand control characters.

       -raw8  Do not expand characters with top bit set.

       -silent
	      Do not print a MORE ?  prompt. Only do the formatting for the
	      content of the files.  This option may be used when p is only
	      used as a filter.

       -tab   Do not expand tabs to spaces, expand them to '^I'.

       -visible
	      Underlining and bold sequences become visible.

       -help  Prints a short summary of the p(1) options and exists.

       -version
	      Prints the p(1) version number string and exists.


Commands
       If a MORE ?  prompt is displayed, the following commands are valid:

       y,Y,<CR>,<LF>  Yes.  Display the next full screen of text.

       h,H	      Half.  Display the next half screen of text.

       q,Q	      Quarter.	Display the next quarter screen of text.

       l,L	      Line.  Display the next line of text.

       1-9	      Lines.  Dislay the next 1-9 lines of text.

       n,N	      Next/No.	Display the next file. If the current file is
		      the last file in the list exit p.

       p,P	      Previous.	 Display the previous file. If the current
		      file is the first file in the list just start to display
		      the first file.

       s,S	      Stop.  Exit the p program.

       /pattern	      Search.  Start searching for pattern.

       r,R	      Research.	 Re search for previous pattern.

       ^L	      Redraw.  Redisplay the current screen content.

       v,V	      View (Edit).  Start the editor in read only mode with
		      cursor position set to the current line.

       !	      Shell.  Execute a shell using the rest of the input line
		      as shell command.

       ?	      Help.  Print a short help message that lists valid
		      commands.

       other	      Error.  All other input will cause a beep if the
		      environment BEEP is not set to off.

       If the end of a file is reached, p will start with the next file.


ENVIRONMENT
       SHELL  For the shell to use for shell command escapes, file name
	      globbing and similar.

       EDITOR The name of the editor (used for the v command).

       HOME   To find the private files like ~/.termcap

       TERM   The type of terminal for which the output should be formatted.

       TERMCAP
	      This environment variable holds either a precompiled termcap
	      entry or the pathname to be used to find a termcap database
	      file.  If it holds a precompiled entry that does not match the
	      TERM environment, the termcap database is parsed as if the
	      TERMCAP environment is not set.

       TERMPATH
	      If TERMCAP is empty, then the TERMPATH environment is scanned
	      for pathnames of files that contain a termcap database.  It
	      holds a list of filenames separated by colons or spaces (i.e.,
	      ":" or " ").  If the TERMPATH symbol is not set, the files
	      $HOME/.termcap and /etc/termcap are scanned in that order.

       BEEP   The environment variable BEEP is used to suppress beeping when
	      set to off.  This helps to use p on a notebook in a meeting.


FILES
       /etc/termcap
	      The system's terminal capabilities database.

       ~/.termcap
	      The private terminal capabilities database.  This file is
	      checked first, in case that the TERMPATH environment is not
	      defined.


NOTES
       If you type p with no arguments and do not redirect its standard input,
       p will display its usage message.

       If the terminal driver is configured to strip the eight bit in
       characters, p will display a tilde character before any character that
       has the eight bit set (i.e. ~V).


BUGS

Joerg Schilling			  2020/11/23				 P(1L)
