sccschangeset(4)		 File Formats		      sccschangeset(4)

NAME
       sccschangeset - format of an SCCS changeset file

DESCRIPTION
       An SCCS changeset file is an ASCII file consisting of a list of entries
       that describe the state of a project set under control of SCCSv6 or
       later.

       The changeset file itself is under control of SCCS.  SCCS works
       directly on the s.changeset file.  There is no need to check out the
       related file content, as the deltas can be consructed without
       explicitely running the diff(1) program; this results in a noticeable
       performance win.

       Parts of the information are recorded inside the changeset file content
       and other information is recorded within the SCCS meta data of the
       changeset file.


   Conventions
       The following terms are used in this documentation:

       project set	   A set of one or more files under control of SCCS
			   that form a project.

       project set home	   A directory that is above all files from the
			   related project set.	 This directory holds a
			   directory .sccs with project set related meta data
			   such as the changeset file and typically the SCCS
			   history files related to the project.

       commit set	   A single set of changes into the repository for a
			   project set.

       committer	   The person who formed a commit set.

       email address	   The email address used to identify a committer.
			   Since the email address is valid for a whole commit
			   set, it is recorded in the meta data of the related
			   delta to the changeset file.


   File Format
       Each commit set adds a number of entries to the beginning of the
       changeset file, one entry for every file that was modified by this
       commit set.

       Each entry in the changeset file describes the new state of a single
       file after it was modified, renamed, removed or restored in a related
       commit set.

       Each entry in the changeset file ends in a newline character. If the
       file name from the related file contains a newline character,
       additional newlines may be in the related entry.

       Each entry in the changeset file consists of five fields that are
       specific to a single file from the changeset.  The entries are
       separated by a vertical bar character (ASCII 0x7C).  The vertical bar
       character may appear in the path name.

       The following fields appear in the order of the following list:

	      urand	     A unified pseudo random number that is used to
			     help to identify single files across renames
			     during the lifetime of the sccs history.  The
			     unified random number is unique to any file from
			     the project set.  See sccsfile(4) for a detailed
			     description of the unified pseudo random number.

			     The minimal length for the pseudo random number
			     is thirteen hexadecimal characters. If the number
			     could be represented with less digits, it is left
			     filled with zeroes. This allows to have a unique
			     length for this number until
			     Mar 31 10:55:07 2155 GMT.

	      sid	     The file specific SID that was used for the file
			     mentioned in that line of the changeset.

	      sid-sum	     The SID specific checksum for the related file.
			     See sccsfile(4) for a detailed description of the
			     SID specific checksums for a file.

	      path length    A decimal number representing the number of bytes
			     in the path name not including the final newline
			     character used to terminate the whole entry.

	      path name	     The path name of the related file after the
			     commit has been applied.  The path name holds a
			     relative path as seen from the project set home
			     directory.	 As the path name is the last member
			     in the lines of a changeset file, it may contain
			     the vertical bar character (ASCII 0x7C).

       A typical entry in the changeset file may look like:

	 0e31666e43286|1.3|45206|15|some/dir/file.c


FILES
       The sccs init command creates an initial framework of directories and
       files that allow to maintain a set of files in project mode.  The
       following directory structure is created:

       projecthome/.sccs/
		   The location of SCCS files in case that SCCS is in project
		   mode.

       projecthome/.sccs/data
		   The location of the SCCS off-tree shadow directory tree
		   that holds the history files for all files under control of
		   SCCS when in project mode.

       projecthome/.sccs/dels
		   The location of the history files from deleted files that
		   have been in the repository.

       projecthome/.sccs/SCCS/s.changeset
		   The project specific changeset file is in the directory
		   .sccs in the project set home directory.  This is the
		   central database that allows to retrieve the relation
		   between project versions and file specific versions.	 Only
		   the s.changeset file is present, a related g-file does not
		   exist.


SEE ALSO
       sccs(1), sccs-admin(1), sccs-cdc(1), sccs-comb(1), sccs-cvt(1),
       sccs-delta(1), sccs-get(1), sccs-help(1), sccs-log(1), sccs-prs(1),
       sccs-prt(1), sccs-rmdel(1), sccs-sact(1), sccs-sccsdiff(1),
       sccs-unget(1), sccs-val(1), bdiff(1), diff(1), what(1), sccsfile(4).


NOTES
BUGS
AUTHOR

Joerg Schilling			  2020/05/14		      sccschangeset(4)
