ISOINFO(8)		    System Manager's Manual		    ISOINFO(8)

NAME
       devdump, isoinfo, isovfy, isodump - Utility programs for dumping and
       verifying iso9660 images.

SYNOPSIS
       devdump isoimage

       isodump isoimage

       isoinfo [ options ] [ find [ find expression ]]

       isovfy isoimage

DESCRIPTION
       devdump is a crude utility to interactively display the contents of
       device or filesystem images.  The initial screen is a display of the
       first 256 bytes of the first 2048 byte sector.  The commands are the
       same as with isodump.

       isodump is a crude utility to interactively display the contents of
       iso9660 images in order to verify directory integrity.  The initial
       screen is a display of the first part of the root directory, and the
       prompt shows you the extent number and offset in the extent.

	      You can use the 'a' and 'b' commands to move backwards and
	      forwards within the image. The 'g' command allows you to goto an
	      arbitrary extent, and the 'f' command specifies a search string
	      to be used. The '+' command searches forward for the next
	      instance of the search string, and the 'q' command exits devdump
	      or isodump.

       isoinfo is a utility to perform directory like listings of iso9660
       images.

       isovfy is a utility to verify the integrity of an iso9660 image. Most
       of the tests in isovfy were added after bugs were discovered in early
       versions of mkisofs.  It isn't all that clear how useful this is
       anymore, but it doesn't hurt to have this around.


OPTIONS
       The options common to all programs are -help,-h,-version,
       i=name,dev=name.	 The isoinfo program has additional command line
       options. The options are:

       -help

       -h     print a summary of all options.

       -d     Print information from the primary volume descriptor (PVD) of
	      the iso9660 image. This includes information about Rock Ridge,
	      Joliet extensions and Eltorito boot information if present.

       -f     generate output as if a 'find . -print' command had been run on
	      the iso9660 image. You should not use the -l image with the -f
	      option.  The same output is created by calling isoinfo with
	      -find -print

       -find find expression
	      This option acts a separator. If it is used, all isoinfo options
	      must be to the left of the -find option. To the right of the
	      -find option, mkisofs accepts the find command line syntax only.
	      If the find expression includes a -print or -ls promary, the -l
	      to isoinfo is ignored.  If the find expression evaluates as
	      true, the selected action (e.g.  list the ISO-9660 directory) is
	      performed.

       -i iso_image
	      Specifies the path of the iso9660 image that we wish to examine.
	      The options -i and dev=target are mutual exclusive.

       -ignore-error
	      Ignore errors.  The commands by default aborts on several
	      errors, such as read errors. With this option in effect, the
	      commands try to continue.	 Use with care.

       dev=target
	      Sets the SCSI target for the drive, see notes above.  A typical
	      device specification is dev=6,0 .	 If a filename must be
	      provided together with the numerical target specification, the
	      filename is implementation specific.  The correct filename in
	      this case can be found in the system specific manuals of the
	      target operating system.	On a FreeBSD system without CAM
	      support, you need to use the control device (e.g.
	      /dev/rcd0.ctl).  A correct device specification in this case may
	      be dev=/dev/rcd0.ctl:@ .

	      On Linux, drives connected to a parallel port adapter are mapped
	      to a virtual SCSI bus. Different adapters are mapped to
	      different targets on this virtual SCSI bus.

	      If no dev option is present, the program will try to get the
	      device from the CDR_DEVICE environment.

	      If the argument to the dev= option does not contain the
	      characters ',', '/', '@' or ':', it is interpreted as an label
	      name that may be found in the file /etc/default/cdrecord (see
	      FILES section).

	      The options -i and dev=target are mutual exclusive.

       -debug Print additional debug information. This enables e.g. printing
	      of all directory entries if a file has more than one directory
	      entry and printing of more information from the primary volume
	      descriptor.

	      In debug mode, Rock Ridge information is parsed with -R even if
	      it is not standard compliant.

       -l     generate output as if a 'ls -lR' command had been run on the
	      iso9660 image.  You should not use the -f image with the -l
	      option.

	      The numbers in square brackets are the starting sector number as
	      decimal number (based on 2048 bytes per sector) and the iso9660
	      directory flags as hexadecimal number as follows:

	      0x00   A plain file (not really a flag).

	      0x01   Hide the file name from directory listings.

	      0x02   A directory.

	      0x04   An accociated file (e.g. an Apple resource fork).

	      0x08   Record format in extended attributes is used.

	      0x10   No read/execute permission in extended attributes.

	      0x20   reserved

	      0x40   reserved

	      0x80   Not the final entry of a multi extent file.

       -N sector
	      Quick hack to help examine single session disc files that are to
	      be written to a multi-session disc. The sector number specified
	      is the sector number at which the iso9660 image should be
	      written when send to the cd-writer. Not used for the first
	      session on the disc.

       -p     Print path table information.

       -R     Extract information from Rock Ridge extensions (if present) for
	      permissions, file names and ownerships.

       -s     Print file size infos in multiples of sector size (2048 bytes).

       -J     Extract information from Joliet extensions (if present) for file
	      names.

       -j charset
	      Convert Joliet file names (if present) to the supplied charset.
	      See mkisofs(8) for details.

       -T sector
	      Quick hack to help examine multi-session images that have
	      already been burned to a multi-session disc. The sector number
	      specified is the sector number for the start of the session we
	      wish to display.

       -X     Extract files from the image and put them into the filesystem.
	      If the -find option is not used, all files are extracted.

	      The isoinfo program supports to extract all files, even multi
	      extent files (files > 4 GB).

	      Before extracting files using the -X option, it is recommended
	      to change the current directory to an empty directory in order
	      to prevent to clobber existing files.

       -x pathname
	      Extract specified file to stdout.	 The pathname needs to start
	      with a shlash ('/') and in case of iso9660 names, must match the
	      full pathname of the file inluding the version number (usually
	      ';1').  If the option -R has been specified and the filesystem
	      carries Rock Ridge attributes, the pathname must match the full
	      Rock Ridge pathname of the file.


ENVIRONMENT
       CDR_DEVICE
	      This may either hold a device identifier that is suitable to the
	      open call of the SCSI transport library or a label in the file
	      /etc/default/cdrecord.

       RSH    If the RSH environment is present, the remote connection will
	      not be created via rcmd(3) but by calling the program pointed to
	      by RSH.  Use e.g.	 RSH=/usr/bin/ssh to create a secure shell
	      connection.

	      Note that this forces the program to create a pipe to the rsh(1)
	      program and disallows the program to directly access the network
	      socket to the remote server.  This makes it impossible to set up
	      performance parameters and slows down the connection compared to
	      a root initiated rcmd(3) connection.

       RSCSI  If the RSCSI environment is present, the remote SCSI server will
	      not be the program /opt/schily/sbin/rscsi but the program
	      pointed to by RSCSI.  Note that the remote SCSI server program
	      name will be ignored if you log in using an account that has
	      been created with a remote SCSI server program as login shell.


FILES
       /etc/default/cdrecord
	      Default values can be set for the following options in
	      /etc/default/cdrecord.

	      CDR_DEVICE
		     This may either hold a device identifier that is suitable
		     to the open call of the SCSI transport library or a label
		     in the file /etc/default/cdrecord that allows to identify
		     a specific drive on the system.

	      Any other label
		     is an identifier for a specific drive on the system.
		     Such an identifier may not contain the characters ',',
		     '/', '@' or ':'.

		     Each line that follows a label contains a TAB separated
		     list of items.  Currently, four items are recognized: the
		     SCSI ID of the drive, the default speed that should be
		     used for this drive, the default FIFO size that should be
		     used for this drive and drive specific options. The
		     values for speed and fifosize may be set to -1 to tell
		     the program to use the global defaults.  The value for
		     driveropts may be set to "" if no driveropts are used.  A
		     typical line may look this way:

		     teac1= 0,5,0   4	 8m   ""

		     yamaha= 1,6,0  -1	 -1   burnfree

		     This tells the program that a drive named teac1 is at
		     scsibus 0, target 5, lun 0 and should be used with speed
		     4 and a FIFO size of 8 MB.	 A second drive may be found
		     at scsibus 1, target 6, lun 0 and uses the default speed
		     and the default FIFO size.


SEE ALSO
       mkisofs(8), cdrecord(1), readcd(1), scg(7), rcmd(3), ssh(1).


BUGS
       The user interface really sucks.


AUTHOR
       The author of the original sources (1993 ... 1998) is Eric Youngdale
       <ericy@gnu.ai.mit.edu> or <eric@andante.jic.com> is to blame for these
       shoddy hacks.

       Joerg Schilling wrote the SCSI transport library and its adaptation
       layer to the programs and newer parts (starting from 1999) of the
       utilities, this makes them Copyright (C) 1999-2018 Joerg Schilling.
       Patches to improve general usability would be gladly accepted.

FUTURE IMPROVEMENTS
       These utilities are really quick hacks, which are very useful for
       debugging problems in mkisofs or in an iso9660 filesystem. In the long
       run, it would be nice to have a daemon that would NFS export a iso9660
       image.

       The isoinfo program is probably the program that is of the most use to
       the general user.

SOURCE DOWNLOAD
       A frequently updated source code for the cdrtools is included in the
       schilytools project and may be retrieved from the schilytools project
       at Sourceforge at:

	   http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/

       The download directory is:

	   http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/files/

       Check for the schily-*.tar.bz2 archives.

       Less frequently updated source code for the cdrtools is at:

	   http://sourceforge.net/projects/cdrtools/files/

       and
	   http://sourceforge.net/projects/cdrtools/files/alpha

       Despite the name, the software is not beta.

       Separate project informations for the cdrtools project may be retrieved
       from:

	   http://cdrecord.org

INTERFACE STABILITY
       The interfaces provided by readcd are designed for long term stability.
       As readcd depends on interfaces provided by the underlying operating
       system, the stability of the interfaces offered by readcd depends on
       the interface stability of the OS interfaces.  Modified interfaces in
       the OS may enforce modified interfaces in readcd.

Version 3.02			  2018/05/24			    ISOINFO(8)
