PXUPGRADE(1)		    Schily's USER COMMANDS		  PXUPGRADE(1)

NAME
       pxupgrade - upgrade firmware in Plextor CD/DVD writers

SYNOPSIS
       pxupgrade [ options ] [ dev=device ] firmware_file

DESCRIPTION
       Pxupgrade is used to update the firmware in Plextor CD and DVD writers
       as well as in the PX-40 CD-ROM drive.

       See OPTIONS and EXAMPLES section to lean about possible usage.

   Device naming
       Most users do not need to care about device naming at all, as pxupgrade
       implements auto target support and automagically finds Plextor drives.

       The device refers to scsibus/target/lun of the CD/DVD-Recorder.
       Communication on SunOS is done with the SCSI general driver scg.	 Other
       operating systems are using a library simulation of this driver.
       Possible syntax is: dev= scsibus,target,lun or dev= target,lun.	In the
       latter case, the CD/DVD-Recorder has to be connected to the default
       SCSI bus of the machine.	 Scsibus, target and lun are integer numbers.
       Some operating systems or SCSI transport implementations may require to
       specify a filename in addition.	In this case the correct syntax for
       the device is: dev= devicename:scsibus,target,lun or dev=
       devicename:target,lun.  If the name of the device node that has been
       specified on such a system refers to exactly one SCSI device, a
       shorthand in the form dev= devicename:@ or dev= devicename:@,lun may be
       used instead of dev= devicename:scsibus,target,lun.


       To access remote SCSI devices, you need to prepend the SCSI device name
       by a remote device indicator. The remote device indicator is either
       REMOTE:user@host: or REMOTE:host:
       A valid remote SCSI device name may be: REMOTE:user@host: to allow
       remote SCSI bus scanning or REMOTE:user@host:1,0,0 to access the SCSI
       device at host connected to SCSI bus # 1,target 0 lun 0.


       Pxupgrade is completely based on SCSI commands but this is no problem
       as all CD/DVD writers ever made use SCSI commands for the
       communication. Even ATAPI drives are just SCSI drives that inherently
       use the ATA packet interface as SCSI command transport layer build into
       the IDE (ATA) transport.	 You may need to specify an alternate
       transport layer on the command  line if your OS does not implement a
       fully integrated kernel driver subsystem that allows to access any
       drive using SCSI commands via a single unique user interface.


       To access SCSI devices via alternate transport layers, you need to
       prepend the SCSI device name by a transport layer indicator.  The
       transport layer indicator may be something like USCSI: or ATAPI:.  To
       get a list of supported transport layers for your platform, use dev=
       HELP:



       To make pxupgrade portable to all UNIX platforms, the syntax dev=
       devicename:scsibus,target,lun is preferred as it hides OS specific
       knowledge about device names from the user.  A specific OS may not
       necessarily support a way to specify a real device file name nor a way
       to specify scsibus,target,lun.


       Scsibus 0 is the default SCSI bus on the machine. Watch the boot
       messages for more information or look into /var/adm/messages for more
       information about the SCSI configuration of your machine.  If you have
       problems to figure out what values for scsibus,target,lun should be
       used, try the -scanbus option of cdrecord described below.


OPTIONS
       -all   Upgrade all drives which may be upgraded using the specified
	      upgrade file.

       dev=target
	      Sets the SCSI target for the CD/DVD-Recorder, see notes above.
	      A typical device specification is dev=6,0 .  If a filename must
	      be provided together with the numerical target specification,
	      the filename is implementation specific.	The correct filename
	      in this case can be found in the system specific manuals of the
	      target operating system.	On a FreeBSD system without CAM
	      support, you need to use the control device (e.g.
	      /dev/rcd0.ctl).  A correct device specification in this case may
	      be dev=/dev/rcd0.ctl:@ .

	      On Linux, drives connected to a parallel port adapter are mapped
	      to a virtual SCSI bus. Different adapters are mapped to
	      different targets on this virtual SCSI bus.

       -l     List all Plextor drives with their current firmware version.
	      This works only if the current OS platform allows SCSI bus
	      scanning for user programs.

       -help  Prints a short summary of the pxupgrade options and exists.

       -version
	      Prints the pxupgrade version number string and exists.


EXAMPLES
       Use

	  pxupgrade -all    r412c106.bin

       to upgrade all Plextor PX-W412 drives that may be found using the SCSI
       scan bus function of the OS.

       Use

	  pxupgrade dev=3,0 r412c106.bin

       to upgrade the Plextor PX-W412 drive at target 3 lun 0.

       Use

	  pxupgrade -l

       to list all Plextor drives with their firmware if the OS supports SCSU
       bus scanning.

       Use

	 pxupgrade dev=USCSI -l

       to list all Plextor drives with their firmware using the alternate SCSU
       transport method USCSI.

       Use

	  pxupgrade dev=IOCompactDiscServices -l

       On MacOS X to list the first CD-ROM drive in the system.


NOTES
       If the update is done with an ATAPI drive and DMA is active, it is
       likely that the drive will hang after the firmware update as this
       operation puts the drive in PIO mode.

Joerg Schilling		      16. September 2009		  PXUPGRADE(1)
